.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.51
.TH DIRMNGR-CLIENT 1 2024-11-22 "GnuPG 2.5.2" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.6"
.SH NAME
.B dirmngr-client
\- Tool to access the Dirmngr services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  dirmngr-client
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ certfile | pattern ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdirmngr\-client\fP is a simple tool to contact a running
dirmngr and test whether a certificate has been revoked \[em] either by
being listed in the corresponding CRL or by running the OCSP protocol.
If no dirmngr is running, a new instances will be started but this is
in general not a good idea due to the huge performance overhead.


The usual way to run this tool is either:

.RS 2
.nf
dirmngr\-client \fIacert\fP
.fi
.RE


or

.RS 2
.nf
dirmngr\-client <\fIacert\fP
.fi
.RE

Where \fIacert\fP is one DER encoded (binary) X.509 certificates to be
tested.

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBdirmngr\-client\fP returns these values:

.TP
.B  0
The certificate under question is valid; i.e., there is a valid CRL
available and it is not listed there or the OCSP request returned that
that certificate is valid.

.TP
.B  1
The certificate has been revoked

.TP
.B  2 (and other values)
There was a problem checking the revocation state of the certificate.
A message to stderr has given more detailed information.  Most likely
this is due to a missing or expired CRL or due to a network problem.

.P

.SH OPTIONS

\fBdirmngr\-client\fP may be called with the following options:


.TP
.B  \-\-version
Print the program version and licensing information.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

.TP
.B  \-\-help, \-h
Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.
Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

.TP
.B  \-\-quiet, \-q
Make the output extra brief by suppressing any informational messages.

.TP
.B  \-v
.TP
.B  \-\-verbose
Outputs additional information while running.
You can increase the verbosity by giving several
verbose commands to \fBdirmngr\fP, such as \(oq\-vv\(cq.

.TP
.B  \-\-pem
Assume that the given certificate is in PEM (armored) format.

.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp
Do the check using the OCSP protocol and ignore any CRLs.

.TP
.B  \-\-force\-default\-responder
When checking using the OCSP protocol, force the use of the default OCSP
responder.  That is not to use the Responder as given by the certificate.

.TP
.B  \-\-ping
Check whether the dirmngr daemon is up and running.

.TP
.B  \-\-cache\-cert
Put the given certificate into the cache of a running dirmngr.  This is
mainly useful for debugging.

.TP
.B  \-\-validate
Validate the given certificate using dirmngr's internal validation code.
This is mainly useful for debugging.

.TP
.B  \-\-load\-crl
This command expects a list of filenames with DER encoded CRL files.
With the option \fB\-\-url\fP URLs are expected in place of filenames
and they are loaded directly from the given location.  All CRLs will be
validated and then loaded into dirmngr's cache.

.TP
.B  \-\-lookup
Take the remaining arguments and run a lookup command on each of them.
The results are Base-64 encoded outputs (without header lines).  This
may be used to retrieve certificates from a server. However the output
format is not very well suited if more than one certificate is returned.

.TP
.B  \-\-url
.TQ
.B  \-u
Modify the \fBlookup\fP and \fBload\-crl\fP commands to take an URL.

.TP
.B  \-\-local
.TQ
.B  \-l
Let the \fBlookup\fP command only search the local cache.

.TP
.B  \-\-squid\-mode
Run \fBdirmngr-client\fP in a mode suitable as a helper program for
Squid's \fBexternal_acl_type\fP option.


.P

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdirmngr\fP(8),
\fBgpgsm\fP(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.



