.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.51
.TH DIRMNGR 8 2024-11-22 "GnuPG 2.5.2" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.6"
.SH NAME
.B dirmngr
\- GnuPG's network access daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  dirmngr
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Since version 2.1 of GnuPG, \fBdirmngr\fP takes care of accessing
the OpenPGP keyservers.  As with previous versions it is also used as
a server for managing and downloading certificate revocation lists
(CRLs) for X.509 certificates, downloading X.509 certificates, and
providing access to OCSP providers.  Dirmngr is invoked internally by
\fBgpg\fP, \fBgpgsm\fP, or via the \fBgpg\-connect\-agent\fP
tool.





.SH COMMANDS

Commands are not distinguished from options except for the fact that
only one command is allowed.

.TP
.B  \-\-version
Print the program version and licensing information.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

.TP
.B  \-\-help, \-h
Print a usage message summarizing the most useful command-line options.
Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

.TP
.B  \-\-dump\-options
Print a list of all available options and commands.  Note that you cannot
abbreviate this command.

.TP
.B  \-\-server
Run in server mode and wait for commands on the \fBstdin\fP.  The
default mode is to create a socket and listen for commands there.
This is only used for testing.

.TP
.B  \-\-daemon
Run in background daemon mode and listen for commands on a socket.
This is the way \fBdirmngr\fP is started on demand by the other
GnuPG components.  To force starting \fBdirmngr\fP it is in
general best to use \fBgpgconf \-\-launch dirmngr\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-supervised
Run in the foreground, sending logs to stderr, and listening on file
descriptor 3, which must already be bound to a listening socket.  This
option is deprecated and not supported on Windows.

.TP
.B  \-\-list\-crls
List the contents of the CRL cache on \fBstdout\fP. This is probably
only useful for debugging purposes.

.TP
.B  \-\-load\-crl \fIfile\fP
This command requires a filename as additional argument, and it will
make Dirmngr try to import the CRL in \fIfile\fP into it's cache.
Note, that this is only possible if Dirmngr is able to retrieve the
CA's certificate directly by its own means.  In general it is better
to use \fBgpgsm\fP's \fB\-\-call\-dirmngr loadcrl filename\fP command
so that \fBgpgsm\fP can help dirmngr.

.TP
.B  \-\-fetch\-crl \fIurl\fP
This command requires an URL as additional argument, and it will make
dirmngr try to retrieve and import the CRL from that \fIurl\fP into
it's cache.  This is mainly useful for debugging purposes.  The
\fBdirmngr\-client\fP provides the same feature for a running dirmngr.

.TP
.B  \-\-shutdown
This commands shuts down an running instance of Dirmngr.  This command
has currently no effect.

.TP
.B  \-\-flush
This command removes all CRLs from Dirmngr's cache.  Client requests
will thus trigger reading of fresh CRLs.

.P


.SH OPTIONS

Note that all long options with the exception of \fB\-\-options\fP
and \fB\-\-homedir\fP may also be given in the configuration file
after stripping off the two leading dashes.


.TP
.B  \-\-options \fIfile\fP
Reads configuration from \fIfile\fP instead of from the default
per-user configuration file.  The default configuration file is named
\(oq\fIdirmngr.conf\fP\(cq and expected in the home directory.

.TP
.B  \-\-homedir \fIdir\fP
Set the name of the home directory to \fIdir\fP.  This option is only
effective when used on the command line.  The default is
the directory named \(oq\fI.gnupg\fP\(cq directly below the home directory
of the user unless the environment variable \fBGNUPGHOME\fP has been set
in which case its value will be used.  Many kinds of data are stored within
this directory.


.TP
.B  \-v
.TP
.B  \-\-verbose
Outputs additional information while running.
You can increase the verbosity by giving several
verbose commands to \fBdirmngr\fP, such as \fB\-vv\fP.


.TP
.B  \-\-log\-file \fIfile\fP
Append all logging output to \fIfile\fP.  This is very helpful in
seeing what the agent actually does.  Use \(oq\fIsocket://\fP\(cq to log to
socket.

.TP
.B  \-\-compatibility\-flags \fIflags\fP
Set compatibility flags to work around certain problems or to emulate
bugs.  The \fIflags\fP are given as a comma separated list of flag
names and are OR-ed together.  The special flag "none" clears the list
and allows one to start over with an empty list.  To get a list of
available flags the sole word "help" can be used.

.TP
.B  \-\-faked\-system\-time \fIepoch\fP
This option is only useful for testing; it sets the system time back or
forth to \fIepoch\fP which is the number of seconds elapsed since the year
1970.  Alternatively \fIepoch\fP may be given as a full ISO time string
(e.g. "20070924T154812").

.TP
.B  \-\-debug\-level \fIlevel\fP
Select the debug level for investigating problems.  \fIlevel\fP may be a
numeric value or by a keyword:

.RS
.TP
.B  none
No debugging at all.  A value of less than 1 may be used instead of
the keyword.
.TP
.B  basic
Some basic debug messages.  A value between 1 and 2 may be used
instead of the keyword.
.TP
.B  advanced
More verbose debug messages.  A value between 3 and 5 may be used
instead of the keyword.
.TP
.B  expert
Even more detailed messages.  A value between 6 and 8 may be used
instead of the keyword.
.TP
.B  guru
All of the debug messages you can get. A value greater than 8 may be
used instead of the keyword.  The creation of hash tracing files is
only enabled if the keyword is used.
.RE

How these messages are mapped to the actual debugging flags is not
specified and may change with newer releases of this program. They are
however carefully selected to best aid in debugging.

.TP
.B  \-\-debug \fIflags\fP
Set debug flags.  All flags are or-ed and \fIflags\fP may be given in
C syntax (e.g., 0x0042) or as a comma separated list of flag names.  To
get a list of all supported flags the single word "help" can be used.
This option is only useful for debugging and the behavior may change
at any time without notice.

.TP
.B  \-\-debug\-all
Same as \fB\-\-debug=0xffffffff\fP

.TP
.B  \-\-tls\-debug \fIlevel\fP
Enable debugging of the TLS layer at \fIlevel\fP.  The details of the
debug level depend on the used TLS library and are not set in stone.

.TP
.B  \-\-debug\-wait \fIn\fP
When running in server mode, wait \fIn\fP seconds before entering the
actual processing loop and print the pid.  This gives time to attach a
debugger.

.TP
.B  \-\-disable\-check\-own\-socket
On some platforms \fBdirmngr\fP is able to detect the removal of
its socket file and shutdown itself.  This option disable this
self-test for debugging purposes.

.TP
.B  \-s
.TQ
.B  \-\-sh
.TQ
.B  \-c
.TQ
.B  \-\-csh
Format the info output in daemon mode for use with the standard Bourne
shell respective the C-shell. The default is to guess it based on the
environment variable \fBSHELL\fP which is in almost all cases
sufficient.

.TP
.B  \-\-force
Enabling this option forces loading of expired CRLs; this is only
useful for debugging.

.TP
.B  \-\-use\-tor
.TQ
.B  \-\-no\-use\-tor
The option \fB\-\-use\-tor\fP switches Dirmngr and thus GnuPG into
``Tor mode'' to route all network access via Tor (an anonymity
network).  Certain other features are disabled in this mode.  The
effect of \fB\-\-use\-tor\fP cannot be overridden by any other command
or even by reloading dirmngr.  The use of \fB\-\-no\-use\-tor\fP
disables the use of Tor.  The default is to use Tor if it is available
on startup or after reloading dirmngr.  The test on the availability of
Tor is done by trying to connect to a SOCKS proxy at either port 9050
or 9150; if another type of proxy is listening on one of these ports,
you should use \fB\-\-no\-use\-tor\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-standard\-resolver
This option forces the use of the system's standard DNS resolver code.
This is mainly used for debugging.  Note that on Windows a standard
resolver is not used and all DNS access will return the error ``Not
Implemented'' if this option is used.  Using this together with enabled
Tor mode returns the error ``Not Enabled''.

.TP
.B  \-\-recursive\-resolver
When possible use a recursive resolver instead of a stub resolver.

.TP
.B  \-\-resolver\-timeout \fIn\fP
Set the timeout for the DNS resolver to N seconds.  The default are 30
seconds.

.TP
.B  \-\-connect\-timeout \fIn\fP
.TP
.B  \-\-connect\-quick\-timeout \fIn\fP
Set the timeout for HTTP and generic TCP connection attempts to N
seconds.  The value set with the quick variant is used when the
\fB\-\-quick\fP option has been given to certain Assuan commands.  The quick
value is capped at the value of the regular connect timeout.  The
default values are 15 and 2 seconds.  Note that the timeout values are
for each connection attempt; the connection code will attempt to
connect all addresses listed for a server.

.TP
.B  \-\-listen\-backlog \fIn\fP
Set the size of the queue for pending connections.  The default is 64.

.TP
.B  \-\-allow\-version\-check
Allow Dirmngr to connect to \fBhttps://versions.gnupg.org\fP to get
the list of current software versions.  If this option is enabled
the list is retrieved in case the local
copy does not exist or is older than 5 to 7 days.  See the option
\fB\-\-query\-swdb\fP of the command \fBgpgconf\fP for more
details.  Note, that regardless of this option a version check can
always be triggered using this command:

.RS 2
.nf
       gpg\-connect\-agent \-\-dirmngr 'loadswdb \-\-force' /bye
.fi
.RE


.TP
.B  \-\-keyserver \fIname\fP
Use \fIname\fP as your keyserver.  This is the server that \fBgpg\fP
communicates with to receive keys, send keys, and search for
keys.  The format of the \fIname\fP is a URI:
`scheme:[//]keyservername[:port]' The scheme is the type of keyserver:
"hkp" for the HTTP (or compatible) keyservers or "ldap" for the LDAP
keyservers. Note that your particular installation of GnuPG may have
other keyserver types available as well. Keyserver schemes are
case-insensitive. After the keyserver name, optional keyserver
configuration options may be provided.  These are the same as the
\fB\-\-keyserver\-options\fP of \fBgpg\fP, but apply only to this
particular keyserver.

Some keyservers synchronize with each other, so there is not always a
need to send keys to more than one server. Some keyservers use round
robin DNS to give a different keyserver each time you use it.

If exactly two keyservers are configured and only one is a Tor hidden
service (.onion), Dirmngr selects the keyserver to use depending on
whether Tor is locally running or not.  The check for a running Tor is
done for each new connection.

If no keyserver is explicitly configured, dirmngr will use the
built-in default of \fBhttps://keyserver.ubuntu.com\fP.  To avoid the
use of a default keyserver the value \fBnone\fP can be used.

Windows users with a keyserver running on their Active Directory
may use the short form \fBldap:///\fP for \fIname\fP to access this directory.

For accessing anonymous LDAP keyservers \fIname\fP is in general just
a \fBldaps://ldap.example.com\fP.  A BaseDN parameter should never be
specified.  If authentication is required things are more complicated
and two methods are available:

The modern method (since version 2.2.28) is to use the very same syntax
as used with the option \fB\-\-ldapserver\fP.  Please see over
there for details; here is an example:

.RS 2
.nf
       keyserver ldap:ldap.example.com::uid=USERNAME,ou=GnuPG Users,
       dc=example,dc=com:PASSWORD::starttls
.fi
.RE

       The other method is to use a full URL for \fIname\fP; for example:

.RS 2
.nf
       keyserver ldaps://ldap.example.com/????bindname=uid=USERNAME
       %2Cou=GnuPG%20Users%2Cdc=example%2Cdc=com,password=PASSWORD
.fi
.RE

       Put this all on one line without any spaces and keep the '%2C'
       as given.  Replace USERNAME, PASSWORD, and the 'dc' parts
       according to the instructions received from your LDAP
       administrator.  Note that only simple authentication
       (i.e., cleartext passwords) is supported and thus using ldaps is
       strongly suggested (since 2.2.28 "ldaps" defaults to port 389
       and uses STARTTLS).  On Windows authentication via AD can be
       requested by adding \fBgpgNtds=1\fP after the fourth question
       mark instead of the bindname and password parameter.



.TP
.B  \-\-nameserver \fIipaddr\fP
In ``Tor mode'' Dirmngr uses a public resolver via Tor to resolve DNS
names.  If the default public resolver, which is \fB8.8.8.8\fP, shall
not be used a different one can be given using this option.  Note that
a numerical IP address must be given (IPv6 or IPv4) and that no error
checking is done for \fIipaddr\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-disable\-ipv4
.TP
.B  \-\-disable\-ipv6
Disable the use of all IPv4 or IPv6 addresses.

.TP
.B  \-\-disable\-ldap
Entirely disables the use of LDAP.

.TP
.B  \-\-disable\-http
Entirely disables the use of HTTP.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-http\-dp
When looking for the location of a CRL, the to be tested certificate
usually contains so called CRL Distribution Point (DP) entries
which are URLs describing the way to access the CRL.  The first found DP
entry is used.  With this option all entries using the HTTP
scheme are ignored when looking for a suitable DP.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-ldap\-dp
This is similar to \fB\-\-ignore\-http\-dp\fP but ignores entries using
the LDAP scheme.  Both options may be combined resulting in
ignoring DPs entirely.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-ocsp\-service\-url
Ignore all OCSP URLs contained in the certificate.  The effect is to
force the use of the default responder.

.TP
.B  \-\-honor\-http\-proxy
If the environment variable \(oq\fIhttp_proxy\fP\(cq has been set, use its
value to access HTTP servers.  If on Windows the option is used but
the environment variable is not set, the proxy settings are taken
from the system.

.TP
.B  \-\-http\-proxy \fIhost\fP[:\fIport\fP]
Use \fIhost\fP and \fIport\fP to access HTTP servers.  The use of this
option overrides the environment variable \(oq\fIhttp_proxy\fP\(cq regardless
whether \fB\-\-honor\-http\-proxy\fP has been set.


.TP
.B  \-\-ldap\-proxy \fIhost\fP[:\fIport\fP]
Use \fIhost\fP and \fIport\fP to connect to LDAP servers.  If \fIport\fP
is omitted, port 389 (standard LDAP port) is used.  This overrides any
specified host and port part in a LDAP URL and will also be used if host
and port have been omitted from the URL.

.TP
.B  \-\-only\-ldap\-proxy
Never use anything else but the LDAP "proxy" as configured with
\fB\-\-ldap\-proxy\fP.  Usually \fBdirmngr\fP tries to use other
configured LDAP server if the connection using the "proxy" failed.


.TP
.B  \-\-ldapserverlist\-file \fIfile\fP
Read the list of LDAP servers to consult for CRLs and X.509 certificates from
file instead of the default per-user ldap server list file. The default
value for \fIfile\fP is \(oq\fIdirmngr_ldapservers.conf\fP\(cq.

This server list file contains one LDAP server per line in the format

\fBhostname:port:username:password:base_dn:flags\fP

Lines starting with a  \(oq#\(cq are comments.

Note that as usual all strings entered are expected to be UTF-8 encoded.
Obviously this will lead to problems if the password has originally been
encoded as Latin-1.  There is no other solution here than to put such a
password in the binary encoding into the file (i.e., non-ascii characters
won't show up readable). ([The \fBgpgconf\fP tool might be
helpful for frontends as it enables editing this configuration file using
percent-escaped strings.])


.TP
.B  \-\-ldapserver \fIspec\fP
This is an alternative way to specify LDAP servers for CRL and X.509
certificate retrieval.  If this option is used the servers configured
in \(oq\fIdirmngr_ldapservers.conf\fP\(cq (or the file given by
\fB\-\-ldapserverlist\-file\fP) are cleared.  Note that
\(oq\fIdirmngr_ldapservers.conf\fP\(cq is not read again by a reload
signal. However, \fB\-\-ldapserver\fP options are read again.

\fIspec\fP is either a proper LDAP URL or a colon delimited list of
the form

\fBhostname:port:username:password:base_dn:flags:\fP

with an optional prefix of \fBldap:\fP (but without the two slashes
which would turn this into a proper LDAP URL).  \fBflags\fP is a list
of one or more comma delimited keywords:
.RS
.TP
.B  plain
The default: Do not use a TLS secured connection at all; the default
port is 389.
.TP
.B  starttls
Use STARTTLS to secure the connection; the default port is 389.
.TP
.B  ldaptls
Tunnel LDAP through a TLS connection; the default port is 636.
.TP
.B  ntds
On Windows authenticate the LDAP connection using the Active Directory
with the current user.
.TP
.B  areconly
On Windows use only the A or AAAA record when resolving the LDAP
server name.
.RE

Note that in an URL style specification the scheme \fBldaps://\fP
refers to STARTTLS and _not_ to LDAP-over-TLS.


.TP
.B  \-\-ldaptimeout \fIsecs\fP
Specify the number of seconds to wait for an LDAP query before timing
out.  The default are 15 seconds.  0 will never timeout.


.TP
.B  \-\-add\-servers
This option makes dirmngr add any servers it discovers when validating
certificates against CRLs to the internal list of servers to consult for
certificates and CRLs.  This option should in general not be used.

This option might be useful when trying to validate a certificate that
has a CRL distribution point that points to a server that is not
already listed in the ldapserverlist.  Dirmngr will always go to this
server and try to download the CRL, but chances are high that the
certificate used to sign the CRL is located on the same server. So if
dirmngr doesn't add that new server to list, it will often not be able
to verify the signature of the CRL unless the \fB\-\-add\-servers\fP
option is used.

Caveat emptor: Using this option may enable denial-of-service attacks
and leak search requests to unknown third parties.  This is because
arbitrary servers are added to the internal list of LDAP servers which
in turn is used for all unspecific LDAP queries as well as a fallback
for queries which did not return a result.


.TP
.B  \-\-allow\-ocsp
This option enables OCSP support if requested by the client.

OCSP requests are rejected by default because they may violate the
privacy of the user; for example it is possible to track the time when
a user is reading a mail.


.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp\-responder \fIurl\fP
Use \fIurl\fP as the default OCSP Responder if the certificate does
not contain information about an assigned responder.  Note, that
\fB\-\-ocsp\-signer\fP must also be set to a valid certificate.

.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp\-signer \fIfpr\fP|\fIfile\fP
Use the certificate with the fingerprint \fIfpr\fP to check the
responses of the default OCSP Responder.  Alternatively a filename can be
given in which case the response is expected to be signed by one of the
certificates described in that file.  Any argument which contains a
slash, dot or tilde is considered a filename.  Usual filename expansion
takes place: A tilde at the start followed by a slash is replaced by the
content of \(oq\fIHOME\fP\(cq, no slash at start describes a relative filename
which will be searched at the home directory.  To make sure that the
\fIfile\fP is searched in the home directory, either prepend the name
with "./" or use a name which contains a dot.

If a response has been signed by a certificate described by these
fingerprints no further check upon the validity of this certificate is
done.

The format of the \fIFILE\fP is a list of SHA-1 fingerprint, one per
line with optional colons between the bytes.  Empty lines and lines
prefix with a hash mark are ignored.


.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp\-max\-clock\-skew \fIn\fP
The number of seconds a skew between the OCSP responder and them local
clock is accepted.  Default is 600 (10 minutes).

.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp\-max\-period \fIn\fP
Seconds a response is at maximum considered valid after the time given
in the thisUpdate field.  Default is 7776000 (90 days).

.TP
.B  \-\-ocsp\-current\-period \fIn\fP
The number of seconds an OCSP response is considered valid after the
time given in the NEXT_UPDATE datum.  Default is 10800 (3 hours).


.TP
.B  \-\-max\-replies \fIn\fP
Do not return more that \fIn\fP items in one query.  The default is
10.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-cert\-extension \fIoid\fP
Add \fIoid\fP to the list of ignored certificate extensions.  The
\fIoid\fP is expected to be in dotted decimal form, like
\fB2.5.29.3\fP.  This option may be used more than once.  Critical
flagged certificate extensions matching one of the OIDs in the list
are treated as if they are actually handled and thus the certificate
won't be rejected due to an unknown critical extension.  Use this
option with care because extensions are usually flagged as critical
for a reason.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-crl\-extension \fIoid\fP
Add \fIoid\fP to the list of ignored CRL extensions.  The \fIoid\fP is
expected to be in dotted decimal form.  Critical flagged CRL
extensions matching one of the OIDs in the list are treated as if they
are actually handled and thus the certificate won't be rejected due to
an unknown critical extension.  Use this option with care because
extensions are usually flagged as critical for a reason.

.TP
.B  \-\-ignore\-cert \fIfpr\fP|\fIfile\fP
Entirely ignore certificates with the fingerprint \fIfpr\fP.  As an
alternative to the fingerprint a filename can be given in which case
all certificates described in that file are ignored.  Any argument
which contains a slash, dot or tilde is considered a filename.  Usual
filename expansion takes place: A tilde at the start followed by a
slash is replaced by the content of \(oq\fIHOME\fP\(cq, no slash at start
describes a relative filename which will be searched at the home
directory.  To make sure that the \fIfile\fP is searched in the home
directory, either prepend the name with "./" or use a name which
contains a dot.  The format of such a file is a list of SHA-1
fingerprint, one per line with optional colons between the bytes.
Empty lines and lines prefixed with a hash mark are ignored.

This option is useful as a quick workaround to exclude certain
certificates from the system store.


.TP
.B  \-\-hkp\-cacert \fIfile\fP
Use the root certificates in \fIfile\fP for verification of the TLS
certificates used with \fBhkps\fP (keyserver access over TLS).  If
the file is in PEM format a suffix of \fB.pem\fP is expected for
\fIfile\fP.  This option may be given multiple times to add more
root certificates.  Tilde expansion is supported.

If no \fBhkp\-cacert\fP directive is present, dirmngr will use the
system CAs.

.P



.SH EXAMPLES

Here is an example on how to show dirmngr's internal table of OpenPGP
keyserver addresses.  The output is intended for debugging purposes
and not part of a defined API.

.RS 2
.nf
  gpg\-connect\-agent \-\-dirmngr 'keyserver \-\-hosttable' /bye
.fi
.RE

To inhibit the use of a particular host you have noticed in one of the
keyserver pools, you may use

.RS 2
.nf
 gpg\-connect\-agent \-\-dirmngr 'keyserver \-\-dead pgpkeys.bnd.de' /bye
.fi
.RE

The description of the \fBkeyserver\fP command can be printed using

.RS 2
.nf
 gpg\-connect\-agent \-\-dirmngr 'help keyserver' /bye
.fi
.RE




.SH FILES

Dirmngr makes use of several directories when running in daemon mode:
There are a few configuration files to control the operation of
dirmngr.  By default they may all be found in the current home
directory (see: [option --homedir]).


.TP
.B  dirmngr.conf
This is the standard configuration file read by \fBdirmngr\fP on
startup.  It may contain any valid long option; the leading two dashes
may not be entered and the option may not be abbreviated.  This file
is also read after a \fBSIGHUP\fP however not all options will
actually have an effect.  This default name may be changed on the
command line (see: [option --options]).  You should backup this file.

.TP
.B  /etc/gnupg/trusted\-certs
This directory should be filled with certificates of Root CAs you
are trusting in checking the CRLs and signing OCSP Responses.

Usually these are the same certificates you use with the applications
making use of dirmngr.  It is expected that each of these certificate
files contain exactly one DER encoded certificate in a file
with the suffix \(oq\fI.crt\fP\(cq or \(oq\fI.der\fP\(cq.  \fBdirmngr\fP reads
those certificates on startup and when given a SIGHUP.  Certificates
which are not readable or do not make up a proper X.509 certificate
are ignored; see the log file for details.

Applications using dirmngr (e.g., gpgsm) can request these
certificates to complete a trust chain in the same way as with the
extra-certs directory (see below).

Note that for OCSP responses the certificate specified using the option
\fB\-\-ocsp\-signer\fP is always considered valid to sign OCSP requests.

.TP
.B  /etc/gnupg/extra\-certs
This directory may contain extra certificates which are preloaded
into the internal cache on startup. Applications using dirmngr (e.g., gpgsm)
can request cached certificates to complete a trust chain.
This is convenient in cases you have a couple intermediate CA certificates
or certificates usually used to sign OCSP responses.
These certificates are first tried before going
out to the net to look for them.  These certificates must also be
DER encoded and suffixed with \(oq\fI.crt\fP\(cq or \(oq\fI.der\fP\(cq.

.TP
.B  ~/.gnupg/crls.d
This directory is used to store cached CRLs.  The \(oq\fIcrls.d\fP\(cq
part will be created by dirmngr if it does not exists but you need to
make sure that the upper directory exists.

.P

Several options control the use of trusted certificates for TLS and
CRLs.  Here is an Overview on the use and origin of those Root CA
certificates:

.TP
.B  System

These System root certificates are used by:  FIXME

The origin of the system provided certificates depends on the
platform.  On Windows all certificates from the Windows System Stores
\fBROOT\fP and \fBCA\fP are used.

On other platforms the certificates are read from the first file found
form this list: \(oq\fI/etc/ssl/ca\-bundle.pem\fP\(cq,
\(oq\fI/etc/ssl/certs/ca\-certificates.crt\fP\(cq,
\(oq\fI/etc/pki/tls/cert.pem\fP\(cq,
\(oq\fI/usr/local/share/certs/ca\-root\-nss.crt\fP\(cq,
\(oq\fI/etc/ssl/cert.pem\fP\(cq.

.TP
.B  GnuPG

The GnuPG specific certificates stored in the directory
\(oq\fI/etc/gnupg/trusted\-certs\fP\(cq are only used to validate CRLs.


.TP
.B  OpenPGP keyserver

For accessing the OpenPGP keyservers the only certificates used are
those set with the configuration option \fBhkp\-cacert\fP.

.TP
.B  OpenPGP keyserver pool

This is usually only one certificate read from the file
\(oq\fI/home/itodoro/projects/ibm_meta_testing/ibmdir/gpgport/install/share/gnupg/gnupg/sks\-keyservers.netCA.pem\fP\(cq.  If this
certificate exists it is used to access the special keyservers
\fBhkps.pool.sks\-keyservers.net\fP (or \(oq\fIhkps://keys.gnupg.net\fP\(cq).

.P

Please note that \fBgpgsm\fP accepts Root CA certificates for its
own purposes only if they are listed in its file \(oq\fItrustlist.txt\fP\(cq.
\fBdirmngr\fP does not make use of this list --- except FIXME.


.SH NOTES

To be able to see diagnostics it is often useful to put at least the
following lines into the configuration file
\(oq\fI~/gnupg/dirmngr.conf\fP\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
log\-file ~/dirmngr.log
verbose
.fi
.RE

You may want to check the log file to see whether all desired root CA
certificates are correctly loaded.

To be able to perform OCSP requests you probably want to add the line:

.RS 2
.nf
allow\-ocsp
.fi
.RE

To make sure that new options are read or that after the installation
of a new GnuPG versions the right dirmngr version is running, you
should kill an existing dirmngr so that a new instance is started as
needed by the other components:

.RS 2
.nf
gpgconf \-\-kill dirmngr
.fi
.RE

Direct interfaction with the dirmngr is possible by using the command

.RS 2
.nf
gpg\-connect\-agent \-\-dirmngr
.fi
.RE

Enter \fBHELP\fP at the prompt to see a list of commands and enter
\fBHELP\fP followed by a command name to get help on that command.




.SH SIGNALS

A running \fBdirmngr\fP may be controlled by signals, i.e., using
the \fBkill\fP command to send a signal to the process.

Here is a list of supported signals:


.TP
.B  SIGHUP
This signal flushes all internally cached CRLs as well as any cached
certificates.  Then the certificate cache is reinitialized as on
startup.  Options are re-read from the configuration file.  Instead of
sending this signal it is better to use
.RS 2
.nf
gpgconf \-\-reload dirmngr
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B  SIGTERM
Shuts down the process but waits until all current requests are
fulfilled.  If the process has received 3 of these signals and requests
are still pending, a shutdown is forced.  You may also use
.RS 2
.nf
gpgconf \-\-kill dirmngr
.fi
.RE
instead of this signal

.TP
.B  SIGINT
Shuts down the process immediately.


.TP
.B  SIGUSR1
This prints some caching statistics to the log file.

.P




.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpgsm\fP(1),
\fBdirmngr\-client\fP(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.


