.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.51
.TH GPG-WKS-CLIENT 1 2024-11-22 "GnuPG 2.5.2" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.6"
.SH NAME
.B gpg-wks-client
\- Client for the Web Key Service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-supported
.I user-id
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-check
.I user-id
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-create
.I fingerprint
.I user-id
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-receive
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-read
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-mirror
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-install-key
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-remove-key
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-print-wkd-hash
.br
.B gpg-wks-client
.RI [ options ]
.B \-\-print-wkd-url

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgpg\-wks\-client\fP is used to send requests to a Web Key
Service provider.  This is usually done to upload a key into a Web
Key Directory.

With the \fB\-\-supported\fP command the caller can test whether a
site supports the Web Key Service.  The argument is an arbitrary
address in the to be tested domain. For example
\(oq\fIfoo@example.net\fP\(cq.  The command returns success if the Web Key
Service is supported.  The operation is silent; to get diagnostic
output use the option \fB\-\-verbose\fP.  See option
\fB\-\-with\-colons\fP for a variant of this command.

With the \fB\-\-check\fP command the caller can test whether a key
exists for a supplied mail address.  The command returns success if a
key is available.

The \fB\-\-create\fP command is used to send a request for
publication in the Web Key Directory.  The arguments are the
fingerprint of the key and the user id to publish.  The output from
the command is a properly formatted mail with all standard headers.
This mail can be fed to \fBsendmail(8)\fP or any other tool to
actually send that mail.  If \fBsendmail(8)\fP is installed the
option \fB\-\-send\fP can be used to directly send the created
request.  If the provider request a 'mailbox-only' user id and no such
user id is found, \fBgpg\-wks\-client\fP will try an additional user
id.

The \fB\-\-receive\fP and \fB\-\-read\fP commands are used to
process confirmation mails as send from the service provider.  The
former expects an encrypted MIME messages, the latter an already
decrypted MIME message.  The result of these commands are another mail
which can be send in the same way as the mail created with
\fB\-\-create\fP.

The command \fB\-\-install\-key\fP manually installs a key into a
local directory (see option \fB\-C\fP) reflecting the structure of a
WKD.  The arguments are a file with the keyblock and the user-id to
install.  If the first argument resembles a fingerprint the key is
taken from the current keyring; to force the use of a file, prefix the
first argument with "./".  If no arguments are given the parameters
are read from stdin; the expected format are lines with the
fingerprint and the mailbox separated by a space.  The command
\fB\-\-remove\-key\fP removes a key from that directory, its only
argument is a user-id.

The command \fB\-\-mirror\fP is similar to \fB\-\-install\-key\fP but
takes the keys from the the LDAP server configured for Dirmngr.  If no
arguments are given all keys and user ids are installed.  If arguments
are given they are taken as domain names to limit the to be installed
keys.  The option \fB\-\-blacklist\fP may be used to further limit
the to be installed keys.

The command \fB\-\-print\-wkd\-hash\fP prints the WKD user-id identifiers
and the corresponding mailboxes from the user-ids given on the command
line or via stdin (one user-id per line).

The command \fB\-\-print\-wkd\-url\fP prints the URLs used to fetch the
key for the given user-ids from WKD.  The meanwhile preferred format
with sub-domains is used here.

All commands may also be given without the two leading dashes.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBgpg\-wks\-client\fP understands these options:


.TP
.B  \-\-send
Directly send created mails using the \fBsendmail\fP command.
Requires installation of that command.

.TP
.B  \-\-with\-colons
This option has currently only an effect on the \fB\-\-supported\fP
command.  If it is used all arguments on the command line are taken
as domain names and tested for WKD support.  The output format is one
line per domain with colon delimited fields.  The currently specified
fields are (future versions may specify additional fields):

.RS

.TP
.B  1 - domain
This is the domain name.  Although quoting is not required for valid
domain names this field is specified to be quoted in standard C
manner.

.TP
.B  2 - WKD
If the value is true the domain supports the Web Key Directory.

.TP
.B  3 - WKS
If the value is true the domain supports the Web Key Service
protocol to upload keys to the directory.

.TP
.B  4 - error-code
This may contain an gpg-error code to describe certain
failures.  Use \(oqgpg\-error CODE\(cq to explain the code.

.TP
.B  5 - protocol-version
The minimum protocol version supported by the server.

.TP
.B  6 - auth-submit
The auth-submit flag from the policy file of the server.

.TP
.B  7 - mailbox-only
The mailbox-only flag from the policy file of the server.
.RE



.TP
.B  \-\-output \fIfile\fP
.TQ
.B  \-o
Write the created mail to \fIfile\fP instead of stdout.  Note that the
value \fB\-\fP for \fIfile\fP is the same as writing to stdout.  If
this option is used with the \fB\-\-check\fP command and a key was
found it is written to the given file.

.TP
.B  \-\-status\-fd \fIn\fP
Write special status strings to the file descriptor \fIn\fP.
This program returns only the status messages SUCCESS or FAILURE which
are helpful when the caller uses a double fork approach and can't
easily get the return code of the process.

.TP
.B  \-C \fIdir\fP
.TQ
.B  \-\-directory \fIdir\fP
Use \fIdir\fP as top level directory for the commands
\fB\-\-mirror\fP, \fB\-\-install\-key\fP and \fB\-\-remove\-key\fP.
The default is \(oq\fIopenpgpkey\fP\(cq.


.TP
.B  \-\-blacklist \fIfile\fP
This option is used to exclude certain mail addresses from a mirror
operation.  The format of \fIfile\fP is one mail address (just the
addrspec, e.g., "postel@isi.edu") per line.  Empty lines and lines
starting with a '#' are ignored.

.TP
.B  \-\-add\-revocs
.TQ
.B  \-\-no\-add\-revocs
If enabled append revocation certificates for the same addrspec as
used in the WKD to the key.  Modern gpg version are able to import and
apply them for existing keys.  Note that when used with the
\fB\-\-mirror\fP command the revocation are searched in the local
keyring and not in an LDAP directory.  The default is \fB\-\-add\-revocs\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-verbose
Enable extra informational output.

.TP
.B  \-\-quiet
Disable almost all informational output.

.TP
.B  \-\-version
Print version of the program and exit.

.TP
.B  \-\-help
Display a brief help page and exit.

.P


.SH EXAMPLES

To use the services with clients lacking integrated support, the
mailcap mechanism can be used.  Simply put:
.RS 2
.nf
application/vnd.gnupg.wks; \[rs]
  /home/itodoro/projects/ibm_meta_testing/ibmdir/gpgport/install/bin/gpg\-wks\-client \-v \-\-read \-\-send; \[rs]
  needsterminal; \[rs]
  description=WKS message
.fi
.RE
into the \(oq\fI/etc/mailcap\fP\(cq.  This assumes that a /usr/lib/sendmail
is installed.  With this configuration any real mail programs will run
gpg-wks-client for messages received from a Web Key Service.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\-wks\-server\fP(1)



