.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.51
.TH GPG-PRESET-PASSPHRASE 1 2024-11-22 "GnuPG 2.5.2" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.6"
.SH NAME
.B gpg-preset-passphrase
\- Put a passphrase into gpg-agent's cache
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpg-preset-passphrase
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ command ]
.I cache-id

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgpg\-preset\-passphrase\fP is a utility to seed the internal
cache of a running \fBgpg\-agent\fP with passphrases.  It is mainly
useful for unattended machines, where the usual \fBpinentry\fP tool
may not be used and the passphrases for the to be used keys are given at
machine startup.

This program works with GnuPG 2 and later.  GnuPG 1.x is not supported.

Passphrases set with this utility don't expire unless the
\fB\-\-forget\fP option is used to explicitly clear them from the
cache \[em] or \fBgpg\-agent\fP is either restarted or reloaded (by
sending a SIGHUP to it).  Note that the maximum cache time as set with
\fB\-\-max\-cache\-ttl\fP is still honored.  It is necessary to allow
this passphrase presetting by starting \fBgpg\-agent\fP with the
\fB\-\-allow\-preset\-passphrase\fP.




\fBgpg\-preset\-passphrase\fP is invoked this way:

.RS 2
.nf
gpg\-preset\-passphrase [options] [command] \fIcacheid\fP
.fi
.RE

\fIcacheid\fP is either a 40 character keygrip of hexadecimal
characters identifying the key for which the passphrase should be set
or cleared.  The keygrip is listed along with the key when running the
command: \fBgpgsm \-\-with\-keygrip \-\-list\-secret\-keys\fP.
Alternatively an arbitrary string may be used to identify a
passphrase; it is suggested that such a string is prefixed with the
name of the application (e.g \fBfoo:12346\fP).  Scripts should always
use the option \fB\-\-with\-colons\fP, which provides the keygrip in a
"grp" line (cf. \(oq\fIdoc/DETAILS\fP\(cq)/


One of the following command options must be given:

.TP
.B  \-\-preset
Preset a passphrase. This is what you usually will
use. \fBgpg\-preset\-passphrase\fP will then read the passphrase from
\fBstdin\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-forget
Flush the passphrase for the given cache ID from the cache.

.P


The following additional options may be used:

.TP
.B  \-v
.TQ
.B  \-\-verbose
Output additional information while running.

.TP
.B  \-P \fIstring\fP
.TQ
.B  \-\-passphrase \fIstring\fP
Instead of reading the passphrase from \fBstdin\fP, use the supplied
\fIstring\fP as passphrase.  Note that this makes the passphrase visible
for other users.
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fP(1),
\fBgpgsm\fP(1),
\fBgpg\-agent\fP(1),
\fBscdaemon\fP(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.





