.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.51
.TH GPGTAR 1 2024-11-22 "GnuPG 2.5.2" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.6"
.SH NAME
.B gpgtar
\- Encrypt or sign files into an archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  gpgtar
.RI [ options ]
.I filename1
.I [ filename2, ... ]
.I directory1
.I [ directory2, ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgpgtar\fP encrypts or signs files into an archive.  It is an
gpg-ized tar using the same format as used by PGP's PGP Zip.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBgpgtar\fP understands these options:


.TP
.B  \-\-create
Put given files and directories into a vanilla ``ustar'' archive.

.TP
.B  \-\-extract
Extract all files from a vanilla ``ustar'' archive.
If no file name is given (or it is "-") the archive is taken from
stdin.

.TP
.B  \-\-encrypt
.TQ
.B  \-e
Encrypt given files and directories into an archive.  This option may
be combined with option \fB\-\-symmetric\fP for an archive that may
be decrypted via a secret key or a passphrase.

.TP
.B  \-\-decrypt
.TQ
.B  \-d
Extract all files from an encrypted archive.   If no file name is given
(or it is "-") the archive is taken from stdin.

.TP
.B  \-\-sign
.TQ
.B  \-s
Make a signed archive from the given files and directories.  This can
be combined with option \fB\-\-encrypt\fP to create a signed and then
encrypted archive.

.TP
.B  \-\-list\-archive
.TQ
.B  \-t
List the contents of the specified archive.  If no file name is given
(or it is "-") the archive is taken from stdin.

.TP
.B  \-\-symmetric
.TQ
.B  \-c
Encrypt with a symmetric cipher using a passphrase.  The default
symmetric cipher used is AES-128, but may be chosen with the
\fB\-\-cipher\-algo\fP option to \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-recipient \fIuser\fP
.TQ
.B  \-r \fIuser\fP
Encrypt for user id \fIuser\fP. For details see \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-local\-user \fIuser\fP
.TQ
.B  \-u \fIuser\fP
Use \fIuser\fP as the key to sign with.  For details see \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-output \fIfile\fP
.TQ
.B  \-o \fIfile\fP
Write the archive to the specified file \fIfile\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-verbose
.TQ
.B  \-v
Enable extra informational output.

.TP
.B  \-\-quiet
.TQ
.B  \-q
Try to be as quiet as possible.

.TP
.B  \-\-skip\-crypto
Skip all crypto operations and create or extract vanilla ``ustar''
archives.

.TP
.B  \-\-dry\-run
Do not actually output the extracted files.

.TP
.B  \-\-directory \fIdir\fP
.TQ
.B  \-C \fIdir\fP
Extract the files into the directory \fIdir\fP.  The default is to
take the directory name from the input filename.  If no input filename
is known a directory named \(oq\fIGPGARCH\fP\(cq is used.  For tarball
creation, switch to directory \fIdir\fP before performing any
operations.

.TP
.B  \-\-files\-from \fIfile\fP
.TQ
.B  \-T \fIfile\fP
Take the file names to work from the file \fIfile\fP; one file per
line.

.TP
.B  \-\-null
Modify option \fB\-\-files\-from\fP to use a binary nul instead of a
linefeed to separate file names.

.TP
.B  \-\-utf8\-strings
Assume that the file names read by \fB\-\-files\-from\fP are UTF-8
encoded.  This option has an effect only on Windows where the active
code page is otherwise assumed.

.TP
.B  \-\-openpgp
This option has no effect because OpenPGP encryption and signing is
the default.

.TP
.B  \-\-cms
This option is reserved and shall not be used.  It will eventually be
used to encrypt or sign using the CMS protocol; but that is not yet
implemented.

.TP
.B  \-\-batch
Use batch mode.  Never ask but use the default action.  This option is
passed directly to \fBgpg\fP.  This option is also required to
activate the \fBlog\-file\fP in \(oq\fIcommon.conf\fP\(cq for this program.

.TP
.B  \-\-yes
Assume "yes" on most questions.  Often used together with
\fB\-\-batch\fP to overwrite existing files.  This option is passed
directly to \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-no
Assume "no" on most questions.  This option is passed directly to
\fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-require\-compliance
This option is passed directly to \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-status\-fd \fIn\fP
Write special status strings to the file descriptor \fIn\fP.
See the file DETAILS in the documentation for a listing of them.

.TP
.B  \-\-with\-log
When extracting an encrypted tarball also write a log file with the
gpg output to a file named after the extraction directory with the
suffix ".log".

.TP
.B  \-\-set\-filename \fIfile\fP
Use the last component of \fIfile\fP as the output directory.  The
default is to take the directory name from the input filename.  If no
input filename is known a directory named \(oq\fIGPGARCH\fP\(cq is used.
This option is deprecated in favor of option \fB\-\-directory\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-no\-compress
This option tells gpg to disable compression (i.e., using option -z0).
It is useful for archiving only large files which are already
compressed (e.g., a set of videos).

.TP
.B  \-\-gpg \fIgpgcmd\fP
Use the specified command \fIgpgcmd\fP instead of \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-gpg\-args \fIargs\fP
Pass the specified extra options to \fBgpg\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-tar\-args \fIargs\fP
Assume \fIargs\fP are standard options of the command \fBtar\fP
and parse them.  The only supported tar options are
\fB\-\-directory\fP, \fB\-\-files\-from\fP, and \fB\-\-null\fP.
This is an obsolete options because those supported tar options can
also be given directly.

.TP
.B  \-\-tar \fIcommand\fP
This is a dummy option for backward compatibility.

.TP
.B  \-\-version
Print version of the program and exit.

.TP
.B  \-\-help
Display a brief help page and exit.

.P

.SH EXAMPLES

Encrypt the contents of directory \(oq\fImydocs\fP\(cq for user Bob to file
\(oq\fItest1\fP\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpgtar \-\-encrypt \-\-output test1 \-r Bob mydocs
.fi
.RE


List the contents of archive \(oq\fItest1\fP\(cq:

.RS 2
.nf
gpgtar \-\-list\-archive test1
.fi
.RE


.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The program returns 0 if everything was fine, 1 otherwise.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fP(1),
\fBtar\fP(1),

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.


